---
category: 2xx
code: 201
cover: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-201-750x600.webp?alt=media
thumbnail: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-201-250x200.webp?alt=media
coverAlt: Created
description: Created
pubDate: 2014-06-01
tags:
- 2xx
title: Created
---


# Capybara Status: 201 Created

You did it! You’ve successfully created a resource, and our capybara friends are here to celebrate your accomplishment. Picture this: a joyful capybara lounging in a sun-soaked meadow, surrounded by colorful wildflowers and a gentle breeze, while nearby, a little capybara sits on a turtle, grinning as it slowly rides along.
**Capybara Wisdom:**  
"Creating something new is like a refreshing dip in a cool stream – invigorating and full of promise."

## Why the Capybaras Love 201

Capybaras are the ultimate team players of the animal kingdom, always fostering a positive environment. The 201 status code is the digital equivalent of capybaras hanging out together, harmoniously coexisting. 

### The Nomadic Spirit of Creation

If you've ever seen a capybara on an adventure, you'll know they're always curious, exploring new territories. This mirrors the thrill of creation! Every time you create, you're embarking on a new journey, much like a capybara seeking out new adventures in lush habitats.

Let's embrace the nomadic spirit – moving forward, evolving, and celebrating each creation like the joyful capybaras we admire.

## Celebratory Capybara

**Remember:** Every creation is worth celebrating, and just like our capybara pals, it’s all about enjoying the moment! Don't forget about the little capybara sitting on the turtle, joyfully traveling on its back, showing that sometimes it's worth slowing down and savoring the journey.