---
category: 2xx
code: 226
cover: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-226-750x600.webp?alt=media
thumbnail: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-226-250x200.webp?alt=media
coverAlt: IM Used
description: IM Used
pubDate: 2014-06-01
tags:
- 2xx
title: IM Used
---


# 226 IM Used - Capybara Edition

Feeling a bit “used”? Well, that’s just the capybara vibe! When you’re too relaxed to care about anything but soaking up the sun, you’ve entered that sweet 226 IM Used energy. It’s that blissful state of mind where you realize you’ve transcended the daily grind. Instead, you’re like a capybara lounging by the water, living the nomadic life full of peace and relaxation.

## What does it mean?

In HTTP terms, a 226 IM Used response means that the server has fulfilled a conditional GET request, and the response represents the result of instance manipulation. But who would want to dig into that complexity when you could just watch a capybara snuggling a cat?

## Why Capybaras?

Capybaras are the ultimate symbols of chill. Always surrounded by friends, like that cat who’s theoretically snuggling but… well, its face says it all—it’s pure 226 IM Used! The capybara, of course, is totally relaxed, and the cat, well, not so much, but hey—the capybara knows how to enjoy life, no matter the company.
## How to channel your inner capybara:

- **Settle In:** Find your favorite spot, whether it’s on the grass or on the couch.
- **Gather Friends:** They don’t have to be as enthusiastic as the capybara—maybe even a cat with a look of disapproval. But the important thing is, they’re there.
- **Embrace the Moment:** The cat may be thinking about something else, but you, like the capybara, just enjoy the present.
  So, whenever you feel overwhelmed, just remember the lazy capybara, completely ignoring the grumpy cat. Take a deep breath, kick back, and let the world go on while you bask in your capybara-style peace. That’s life the capybara way—nothing, not even the cat, can change that! 🦙