---
category: 3xx
code: 301
cover: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-301-750x600.webp?alt=media
thumbnail: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-301-250x200.webp?alt=media
coverAlt: Moved Permanently
description: Moved Permanently
tags:
- 3xx
title: Moved Permanently
---


# 301 Moved Permanently

Have you ever had that moment when you thought you were heading to the perfect sunbathing spot, only to find out it's been taken over by a group of otters 🦦, lazily chilling on green pastures? Just like these adorable creatures, some URLs can be… a little migratory 🌍.

## What Does This Code Mean?

When you see a “301 Moved Permanently” status code, it's like an otter waving goodbye 👋, drifting off towards a sunnier coastline 🌊. This status code is the internet's way of saying: “Hey, this page has moved to a new spot and won’t be coming back!”
## A Capybara's Take on 301

Imagine an otter 🦦 relaxing on lush green fields, suddenly deciding it's time to move to the coast 🌞 and enjoy the waves 🌊 and the cool sea breeze. Just like this otter, your website can change its habitat (URL) permanently.

Here’s how a 301 redirect works:

- **Visitor Traffic:** Visitors trying to reach that green page (URL A) unknowingly get redirected to the new beachside spot (URL B) where the page now resides 🏖️.
- **SEO Benefits:** Search engines, like friendly companions 🕵️‍♂️, take notice and start associating the new beach home (URL B) with the old one (URL A). This way, you keep all that precious “link juice” 🍹!
  
## Why Embrace the Change?

Even otters need a change of scenery sometimes! 🌿 Moving to a new web address is essential for a smooth visitor experience. Whether you’ve rebranded or simply relocated your digital hideaway, a 301 Moved Permanently code helps your audience follow you to the sunnier shores 🏝️.

So, when the time comes for change, be like an otter who moves to the coast and enjoys the ocean waves 🌊. Just remember to set up that 301 redirect and ensure your visitors come along for the ride! 🦦