---
category: 3xx
code: 302
cover: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-302-750x600.avif?alt=media
thumbnail: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-302-250x200.avif?alt=media
coverAlt: Found
description: Found
pubDate: 2014-06-01
tags:
- 3xx
title: Found
---


# 302 Capybara Found

Ever felt like your internet journey took an unexpected twist? Well, you've found yourself at the capybara crossroads! The HTTP status code **302 Found** is just like a cheerful capybara, nonchalantly guiding you toward a new location. 

Imagine you're wandering through a vast digital wilderness, and suddenly, a friendly capybara appears! It points you in the direction of a different URL, urging you to follow its lead. That's right, dear traveler - you won't be lingering here for long, as the capybara has a new adventure waiting just around the bend.

## What's Happening?

When you see **302 Found**, it’s like the capybara saying, "Hey, hold on a second! I need to redirect you to a place that’s even cooler!" This status code isn’t just a random detour; it’s a temporary stay in the delightful world of capybaras, giving you a minute to appreciate the fluffiness before whisking you away to another digital destination.

## The Capybara Way

Capybaras are known for their chill vibes and social nature, much like how the 302 response works. They don’t want you to feel lost; they want you to explore! Here’s a little breakdown of what to expect when you encounter this furry friend in the realm of HTTP:

- **Temporary Redirection**: You're on an adventure, but the journey isn't over. Stay curious!
- **Follow the Path**: Just as capybaras know their way around, your browser will automatically follow the new URL. No need to worry, you're in safe paws!
- **Flexibility**: Like a nomadic capybara, this response can lead you to new experiences, but it might not be a permanent change. 

So, cherish the wanderlust! Let the capybara guide you onward, and embrace the joy of unexpected stops along your digital quest. 

Remember, if you ever hit a roadblock, just look for the capybara. There’s always a new path waiting just around the corner!
