---
category: 4xx
code: 498
cover: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-498-750x600.webp?alt=media
thumbnail: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/capy-http.appspot.com/o/Capy-498-250x200.webp?alt=media
coverAlt: Token Expired/Invalid
description: Token Expired/Invalid
pubDate: 2014-06-01
tags:
- 4xx
title: Token Expired/Invalid
---


# 498 Token Expired/Invalid 🦙✨

When your capybara attempts to authenticate, but the universe says "Nah!" This error isn't just a failure; it's a reminder to embrace the nomadic spirit of our favorite rodent friend. Just like a capybara blissfully floating in a hot spring, sometimes we need to let go and float away from the tech troubles. 

Imagine this: You're on a journey through the vast digital savanna, and suddenly, your browsing buddy (the capybara) gets hit with a token expiration. It's like trying to cross a river with only a twig to float on. You thought you had your life jacket on, but alas! The system thinks you’ve jumped ship!

**Causes:**
- Your token decided to take a vacation and expired.
- Someone didn’t refill the water bowl, and now the token’s all dried up.
- You’ve been away too long; the capybara left without you!

**What to do?**
1. **Refresh your token:** Just like a capybara taking a well-deserved break, sometimes you just need to reset.
2. **Check your credentials:** Make sure your digital treats are still being recognized.
3. **Reconnect with nature:** Take a moment away from the screen and appreciate the simple joys of a sunny day with capybaras.

In the wild world of the web, tokens may expire, but the capybara spirit lives on, reminding us to keep our heads above water and bask in the warm glow of adventure!